1. Introduction
Short-term and chronic exposure to air pollutants has been linked to increased morbidity in cardiovascular, respiratory disease and inflammation (Jiang et al., 2021; Xue et al., 2022; Zhang et al., 2022), which ultimately contributes to higher mortality rate (Abbey et al., 1999). Recent studies also revealed that the indoor environment contains different pollutants, which increases the disease burden for occupants (Mestl and Edwards, 2011). Considering that the majority of individuals spend more than 85 % of their time indoors (Klepeis et al., 2001), indoor air quality (IAQ) significantly impacts overall well-being (Ali et al., 2021). Therefore, obtaining reliable IAQ information is crucial in maintaining a satisfactory environment.

1.1. The emerging of IoT-based IAQ platform for better IAQ management
However, a large amount of effort is needed to obtain good knowledge about the IAQ for typical buildings because the IAQ process is complicated. Indoor air pollution stems from various indoor and outdoor sources. These sources encompass smoking, cooking, biomass fuel smoke, furniture emissions, and engine exhaust from nearby traffic (Sarigiannis et al., 2011; Hu and Zhao, 2022; Zhao et al., 2019). The specific indoor and outdoor pollution sources can vary among different buildings. Moreover, the contribution of these pollution sources to IAQ can fluctuate over time. For example, the introduction of outdoor-origin pollutants is influenced by the outdoor environment (Dai et al., 2018), while the emission of indoor-emitted pollutants is affected by the frequency of indoor activities (Zhou et al., 2016) and various indoor environment parameters (Liang et al., 2016). Additionally, it is worth noting that building ventilation has substantial impacts on IAQ (Godish and Spengler, 1996). These observations highlight the multitude of factors that impact IAQ, resulting in a process characterized by substantial uncertainty and stochasticity.
Traditionally, the investigation of IAQ has relied on the use of laboratory equipment. For example, Dusttrak is a widely used device to measure particle concentrations. Many studies have employed this device to measure indoor PM2.5 concentration for different buildings and under different conditions (Yassin et al., 2012; Cao et al., 2005; Jorquera et al., 2018). The strength of these devices lies in their high accuracy, which makes them useful for fundamental research purposes. However, these devices are usually expensive. As a result, it is challenging to use them for investigation with large sample sizes and long-term monitoring. In addition, these devices are usually owned by laboratory researchers, and it also takes time to pass the investigation result to the building users. Consequently, building users face difficulties in promptly addressing unexpected IAQ issues due to the delay in receiving the relevant information.
Empowered by the Internet of Things (IoT) technology, seamless communication has become achievable between individuals, processes, and things (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_of_things, 2021). This convenient communication has led to remarkable advancements in sensing and control within various domains, including transportation (Zantalis et al., 2019), energy (Bedi et al., 2018) and buildings (Minoli et al., 2017). Simultaneously, commercial IAQ sensors have also experienced substantial improvements in recent years (Castell et al., 2017; Baron and Saffell, 2017). They can be embedded in microchips and connected to the internet through IoT technologies. As a result, it is now opportune to explore whether commercial IAQ sensors and IoT technology can enhance the daily monitoring of IAQ, and thereby improve the energy efficiency, demand flexibility, and resiliency of the ventilation system, which is an emerging area that shows great promise for development.
Another notable advantage of the IoT-based IAQ platform is that it can provide a chance to conduct long-term IAQ monitoring with large sample sizes. This capability enables the collection of extensive real-time IAQ data from different buildings under actual operating conditions. Consequently, it becomes possible to leverage machine learning (ML) techniques for analyzing the IAQ process across different buildings. ML has been used in almost every stage of the building lifecycle, demonstrating its ability to enhance overall building performance (Hong et al., 2020). Therefore, it is interesting to investigate the ability of using ML to inexpensively monitor indoor pollutants, identify their sources and facilitate effective controls to advance IAQ management. This integration of ML with the IoT holds significant promise in improving IAQ outcomes.