


door air quality (IAQ) is basically defined as the circumstances within the house
which usually comprise air quality admittance to views, daylight, lovely sound
situations, resident activities, and thermal relief. IAQ is also demarcated by the
illustration of air pollutant concentrations (gaseous compounds and particles such
as non-biological and bioaerosols) and thermal circumstances which could be
harmful and influence the fitness, coziness, and enactment of a building’s inhabitants
(Satsangi et al. 2014; USEPA 2020). IAQ definitions can be different and depends on
perceptions of the human user, indoor air space, and source contribution profile to
indoor air pollution (Bluyssen 2009).
IAP is considered within the five top risks to public health (USEPA 2020). The
disclosure leads to health hazards including respiratory and cardiovascular syn-
dromes and their carcinogenic effects (lung cancer and childhood leukemia) (Frank-
lin 2007; Lin et al. 2013). The World Health Organization (WHO) recognizes an
array of pollutants like particulates (PM), carbon dioxide (CO 2 ), nitrogen dioxide
(NO 2 ), carbon monoxide (CO), radon (Rn), formaldehyde, polycyclic aromatic
hydrocarbons (PAHs), and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) (benzene, naphtha-
lene, trichloroethylene, and tetrachloroethylene) for assessing IAQ (WHO 2010).
Around 4 lakh impulsive demises due to air pollution were reported in 2019 by the
European Union (European Environment Agency 2019). Therefore, it is serious to
afford declarative and conceptual consciousness about the survival of air pollutants
and their sources, formation methods, limit values, and health effects along with
their measurement methods and principles (Rohra et al. 2018, 2020; Pipal et al.
2021).
2 A. S. Pipal and A. Taneja
The IAP led to greater than four million premature deaths in offspring and adults
as per the WHO report in 2012. It is also responsible for 1.5 million deaths and 2.7%
of the worldwide burden of illness (WHO 2010). IAP is one of the nine utmost
substantial global burdens of disease risk (Forouzanfar et al. 2015). In this connec-
tion, the climate variation, environmental ruin, quick growth in urban areas, and
epidemics are the global challenges. In order to overcome these global issues, the
review and modification are highly required in the current understanding/outdated
methods of evaluating man-made effects on the environment, multidisciplinary
tactics of integrated valuations, and sustainable environment development methods

Consequently, these steps are to abstract what has been educated and relate it to
the individual atmosphere which comprises the plans for keeping good IAQ. This
has expanded significant importance in scientific community and public awareness
during the COVID-19 pandemic period. IAQ has been debasing due to excessive
emissions of air pollutants and directly results the extent of COVID-19. The PM 2.5
magnifies COVID-19 infectivity which permitting to the epidemiological study led
in Italy (Borro et al. 2020). It was shown that growth (10–25 μg/m 3 ) in PM 2.5
concentration is responsible for increasing the infection rate at three times and
enhance (twice) the mortality case. An epidemiological assessment was conducted
by Cole et al. (2020) to find the association between air quality and COVID-19
losses in 355 municipalities of the Netherlands by a deleterious binomial regression
model with chemical transport modeling (Cole et al. 2020).

Therefore, regular ventilation, proper cleaning, and other precautions in indoor
environments are crucial to decrease the probable viral burden in the air which
diminish the likelihood of infection with the COVID-19. In addition, the concentra-
tion of air pollutants (PM and VOCs) could be reduced which are responsible for
various harmful symptoms (disorders, headaches, and dizziness). Metal oxide semi-
conductor (MOS) sensors used for direct measurement of VOCs and CO 2 measure-
ment are also a sign for IAQ monitoring system (Höfner and Andreas 2021). The
good air quality in classrooms and schools is also important to make ideal situations
for learning and other scientific activities. In addition to avoid the high emission of
air pollutants every day, regular ventilation system is the most actual mode to
approve good IAQ. Thus, the environmental awareness and its consequences
along with make approval for ventilation trials which are the basic requirement for
maintaining a good IAQ. Moreover, agreeing to recent ideas of environmental
knowledge and attitude in terms of different aspects and environmental behavior is
a very important part. It has been displayed that the modest teaching of
Measurements of Indoor Air Quality 3
environmental familiarity about the pollutants and principles of sensor technology is
a basic requirement, and this type of information alone is not adequate to create a
variation in environmental performance (Szagun et al. 1994; Milton et al. 1995).
Thus, measurements, characterization, and source apportionment of IAQ are neces-
sary in order to examine the entire aspects of IAQ system with respect to current
science and its applications. However, IAQ is hard to measure and evaluate for
several causes, prominent among them are:
(i) The absence of fixed metrics, standards, and consent on auspicious IAQ.
(ii) The diversity and difficulty of air pollutants which are found in indoor envi-
ronments can distress public health and their comfort at very low levels.
(iii) The scarce understanding of relations among indoor pollutant levels, separate
exposure, and combined air pollutants and its health effects (acute and chronic).
(iv) The variety of health issues which are related to IAP exposure also can affect
humans in various ways.
(v) The probe of whether the pollutants being measured are the ones that really
matter.
(vi) The lack of awareness of potential problems and remedies.
Moreover, climate variables such as temperature, rainfall, water vapor, WD, WS,
and cloud properties affect air quality in direct and indirect ways. For instance, the
higher temperature in outdoor environment leads to amplified O3 level and subse-
quent reactions which generate air pollutants in indoor environment. Increased
temperature and precipitation in indoor environment could increase chemical off
gassing degrees from indoor resources and threat for flooding and water damage,
respectively. The regional climate change is also responsible for affecting the flood
arrays, droughts, wildfires, vegetation, and allied indoor exposures (mold, dust,
bacteria, ignition products, chemical contaminants, pesticides, and pollen)

IAQ and Potential Pollutants
The research of IAQ includes concentration measurement of PM and primary (Rn,
O 3 , NOx, SO2 , CO, diatomic carbon, and VOCs) and secondary gaseous pollutants.
Several studies have reported higher particle number concentration in ultrafine
(<0.1 μm) than coarse range in urban indoor environment (Thomas and Morawska
2002; Gramotnev and Ristovski 2004). In indoor environments, the usage of chem-
ical products has been increased brutally in the last decade. This can generate
numerous hazardous chemicals in indoor under room temperature that are associated
with several health issues. VOCs exposure is associated with different indications
like respiratory symptoms, headache, vertigo, fatigue, nausea, and nose, eye, and
throat annoyances (Yang et al. 2001; Gorai et al. 2014), whereas adverse effects of
NO 2 toxicity are associated with fever, sneezing, coughing, diaphoresis, chest pain
headache, throat frustrations, and pulmonary edema (Hesterberg et al. 2009).
Numerous studies expose that an adequate CO2 level in indoor environments has
been associated with fatigue and headaches and it leads to vomiting, dizziness, and
nausea (Yu et al. 2009). IAP could be a reason for number of chemical reactions in
the environment which generates secondary air pollutants. It was reported by various
studies that secondary air pollutants are much dangerous as compared to primary
pollutants (Wainman et al. 2000; Rohr et al. 2003). Indoor secondary pollutants (ISP)
like O 3 , NO 2 , and SO 3 are commonly detected which cause major anxiety and
injurious influences on human health. The measurement and prediction of ISP are
more challenging due to their chemical complexities (Yu et al. 2009). Moreover,
volatile, nonvolatile, and non-biological mediators cause a destructive effect on
people living inside the environments. Biological creatures (pollen, fungi, bacteria,
and insects), mycotoxins, and contagious chemicals also play a vital role in deteri-
orating the indoor air quality (Nolte et al. 2001).
Investigation of Indoor Air Quality: A Scientific Approach for Better
Environment
IAQ is an important cause for comfort of public health and quality of air inside the
home which is resolute via huge issues and, subsequently, diverse occupations that
are intricate in allocating with solution of indoor air difficulties. The eminence of
indoor environment has converted a rising problems and fear due to a range of
undefined indicators (annoyance/aridity of mucous membranes, burning eyes, head-
ache/fatigue) in the last eras. These symptoms was reported on the basis of survey
and complained by occupants who are living in several indoor environments (Habil
et al. 2013; Satsangi et al. 2014).
Moreover, these symptoms might be related to raise air pollutant concentrations
in homes which were committed to evaluating climate situations and chemical
components in the indoor environments. Therefore, the purpose of indoor air
monitoring is to define the state of surroundings, evaluate the fears, analyze the
influence of several discharge sources, and offer monitoring data for policymakers to
make a conclusion. In addition, monitoring and characterization may contain rele-
vant measurements for corporal atmosphere with the buildings’ technical systems,
measurement contact, studies of the occurrence of aggravation reactions, or signed
reports due to IAP.
IAQ is affected by air exchange rate, RH, temperature, ventilation, air movement,
etc. (Graudenz et al. 2005), as the buildings presently constructed are airtight and
built by the use of sophisticated isolation ingredients which can aid to diminish the
damage of energy. Nevertheless, the modern building envelope and the air condi-
tioning systems cause a drop in motion of new air. Additionally, the chemical goods
and man-made resources used in indoor atmospheres have contributed to diverse
VOCs (Wang et al. 2004). The studies infer that people are still not innocuous from
risks related with IAP

The many indicators and sicknesses have been connected to poor IAQ in house-
holds in the last decades. Exposures to inorganic, organic, physical, and biological
toxins in indoors at small ranks are mutual, pervasive, and constant. Building-related
sickness is caused by various indoor ecological factors which are allocated into
various groups according to the WHO such as sick building syndrome (SBS),
building-associated sickness (BAS), and manifold chemical sensitivity (MCS)/Envi-
ronmental Disorder (ED) (USEPA 2020).
• Sick Building Syndrome (SBS): It is defined as group of symptoms (experienced
by 30% of occupants) that are associated with the bodily atmosphere of definite
erections (Marmot et al. 2006). These effects or symptoms are either confined in
specific zones or extensive in a house (Redlich et al. 1997; Joshi 2008). These
symptoms are inclining to exacerbate as a function of disclosure time in buildings
and dissolve as people occupy major time away from the house (Guo et al. 2013).
According to the WHO, SBS indications caused by IAP can be classified into
different categories such as mucous membrane annoyance (the eye, throat, and
nose), neurotoxic effects (headaches, irritability, and fatigue), asthma (chest
tightness and wheezing), and skin irritation (dryness) (Kreiss 1989; USEPA
1991).
• Building-Associated Sickness (BAS): BAS is a medical term used for diagnosable
sickness linked to building habitation which defines sicknesses and signs with an
known relevant chemical agent (formaldehyde, xylene, pesticides, and benzene
along with biological agents which are much extensive). The sources of biolog-
ical pollutants in houses are cooling towers, humidification systems, filter wet
surfaces, and water-damaged building constituents (USEPA 2020). The BAS
health symptoms are flu, fever, chills, chest tightness, muscle aches, and cough
along with the grave lung and breathing complications (USEPA 2020). It has been
mentioned that indoor air pollutants could be responsible for BRI symptoms in
four main tools such as immunologic, infectious, toxic, and irritant (Seltzer 1994).
Moreover, there are different factors like physical, chemical, biological, and
psychosocial environments which are also linked to BRI.
• Manifold Chemical Sensitivity (MCS)/Environmental Disorder (ED): IAQ can
effect on production, individual coziness, house preservation charges, and health
and care. It is an offensive situation where a distinct has or grows feeling to minor
ranks of certain chemicals due to prolonged disclosure.
Measurements of Indoor Air Quality 11
