Introduction

Indoor air pollution (IAP) is ranked among the top five environmental public health risks by the Science Advisory Board of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) (Environmental Protection Agency 2019). Studies reveal that human exposure to harmful air pollutants can be two to five times, and occasionally around 100 times higher as compared to outdoor air pollution levels (Cincinelli and Martellini 2017; Anand et al. 2019; Babu and Suthar 2020). The impact of these concentrations is more relevant to the people who spend more than 90% of their routine time indoors (Spiru and Simona 2017; Marques et al. 2019a). The health effects of rising IAP concentrations are not thoroughly analyzed. However, indoor air quality (IAQ) is directly associated to a wide range of health problems including deficits in lung functionality (Kurmi et al. 2012); chronic respiratory disease (Perez-Padilla et al. 2010); development disorders (Wang and Pinkerton 2007; Perera 2008); heart disease (Samet et al. 2016); and damage to kidneys, liver, brain, and nervous system (Neurology 2018). Several factors are contributing to the deterioration of IAQ levels including inorganic and organic contaminants; particulate matter (PM), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), gases (radon, ozone, carbon monoxide, and sulfur dioxide), and biological particles such as pollen, fungi, and bacteria (Cincinelli and Martellini 2017). The definition of IAP generally includes airborne pollutions, introduction and distribution of outdoor air particles, and the fluctuating levels of relative humidity and temperature. It is not possible to overlook humidity and temperature since these thermal comfort parameters affect indoor containment levels and underlie several complaints regarding poor air quality.

World Health Organization (WHO) reports around 8 million deaths globally every year due to air pollution, out of which 4.3 million die just because of household air pollution sources (World Health Organization 2015; Apte and Salvi 2016). Global Burden of Disease Report reveals that IAP is the leading cause of Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) within Southeast Asia and is recognized as the third potential reason behind DALYs on a global level. More than 3 billion people, around half of the world’s population, rely on biomass fuel including wood charcoal, crop residue, wood, and animal dung cakes for everyday cooking and heating activities (Landrigan 2017). China reports 420,000 deaths annually because of the IAP caused by solid fuels. Rural homes in the developing countries have a high concentration of PM and other air pollutants such as sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide, hydrocarbon complexes, formaldehyde, free radicals, phenols, silica, cadmium, lead, iron, carbon radicals, and other organic and inorganic substances (Zi et al. 2016; Liu et al. 2018b; Fan et al. 2018). Most of the deaths due to IAP are reported in middle- and low-income countries, with 52,000 deaths in Europe, 82,000 deaths in the USA, 212,000 deaths in the Eastern Mediterranean region, 739,000 in the African region, 1.2 million deaths in the Western Pacific region, and 1.5 million in Southeast Asia (Chen et al. 2019). Other than this, 9000 people died in high-income countries due to IAP (Ahmed et al. 2019). Although middle- and low-income countries report the primary burden of deaths due to IAP, the death rate is also rising in developed countries due to the common tendency of people to spend more time indoors (Briggs 2003). In this scenario, it is crucial to find reliable and cost-effective methods to monitor the impact of IAP on the health of building occupants.

Government health agencies, policymakers, and researchers are making efforts for the design and development of monitoring systems that can provide real-time supervision of IAP concentrations (Tsai 2017). Besides, multiple agencies worldwide are also creating laboratory-based setups to capture relevant IAQ data for a specific purpose such as to carry out feasibility studies, time series analysis, and to analyze temporal variability of pollutant concentration trends (Afshar-Mohajer et al. 2018; Cho et al. 2019; Karagulian et al. 2019). Low-cost air pollution monitors and sensor network technologies promise revolutionary design opportunities for air quality monitoring while providing answers to a wide range of scientific questions and services to the end-users (Sun et al. 2019). The significant rise in commercial availability of sensors for monitoring gaseous, biological, chemical, and particle pollutants is opening new paths for real-time monitoring in buildings (Emmerich et al. 2017). However, the selection of reliable sensors is a significant challenge for upcoming researchers (Honeycutt et al. 2019). Along with the benefits of low-cost sensing technologies, multiple challenges have been a point of focus for authorities and agencies working in the field of IAP management. There are numerous questions (including energy and efficiency management) on the use of low-cost sensors. Hence, a systematic review is necessary to highlight the potential research questions and to find relevant answers to address the challenges associated with the selection of efficient sensing technologies for IAQ monitoring.

Answer to RQ2
The studies incorporate 33 different parameters that play a crucial role in IAQ monitoring and assessment. Four thermal comfort parameters (temperature, humidity, pressure, and air velocity) have been considered in the analyzed works. In total, 28 studies (70%) include temperature and humidity sensors for indoor thermal comfort assessment. The core IAQ parameters can be divid-
ed into two main categories: gaseous pollutants and PM.There are 23 different gaseous pollutants measured by
the included studies. However, the results show that

CO2 is considered as the most critical factor for evalu-
ating IAQ. In total, 26 studies (65%) include CO2 for

IAQ monitoring. However, 12 studies (30%) included
CO in the list. The measurement ratio for other essential
gaseous pollutants can be observed in Fig. 4.
Consequently, 11 studies (27.5%) included PM2.5
and PM10 each to determine IAQ levels and 8 (20%)

preferred measuring VOCs. The analyzed literature re-
veals that pollutants such as CO, CO2, PM2.5, and

PM10 are the primary causes behind increasing health
problems in urban and rural areas (Yan et al. 2019;
Pamonpol et al. 2020). These are the most common
pollutants released from biomass burning in the poorly
ventilated homes at low- and middle-income countries
(Chen et al. 2017). Also, these pollutants are highly
dominant in modern homes where people experience
repeated IAP exposure due to chemical-rich cleaning
agents, deodorants, and lack of fresh air circulation
(Jiang and Bell 2008; Tran et al. 2020). The selection
of the IAQ parameters also depends upon geographic
locations, lifestyle, and ventilation arrangements.