The increase of the commercial availability of micro-sensor technology is contributing to the rapid adoption of low-cost sensors for air quality monitoring by both citizen science initiatives and public authorities [1]. In general, public authorities want to increase the density of monitoring and measurements and often want to rely on low-cost sensors because they cannot afford sufficient reference air quality monitoring stations (AQMS) [2]. Low-cost sensors can provide real time measurements at lower cost, allowing higher spatial coverage than the current reference methods for air pollutant measurements. Additionally, the monitoring of air pollution with reference measurement methods requires skilled operators for the maintenance and calibration of measuring devices, which are described in detailed standard operational procedures [3,4,5,6,7]. Conversely, it is expected that low-cost sensors can be operated without human intervention, making it possible for unskilled users to monitor air pollution without the need for additional technical knowledge.

For classification and understanding of sensor deployment, one should distinguish between the sole sensor detectors produced by original equipment manufacturers (hereafter such sensors are called OEM, or OEM sensors) and sensor systems (SSys), which include OEM sensors together with a protective box, sampling system, power system, electronic hardware, and software for data acquisition, analogue to digital conversion, data treatment, and data transfer [8]. Hereafter, OEMs and SSys are referred to as low-cost sensors (LCS). From a user point of view, SSys are ready-to-use out of the box systems, while OEM users need to add hardware and software components for protection from meteorological conditions, data storage, data pushing, interoperability of data, and generally the calibration of LCS. The use of LCS is of major interest for citizen science initiatives. Therefore, small and medium enterprises have made SSys available that can be deployed by citizens who want to monitor the air quality in a chosen environment.

Although a number of reviews of the suitability of LCS for ambient air quality have been published [1,9,10,11,12,13,14,15], quantitative data for comparing and evaluating the agreement between LCS and reference data are mostly missing from the existing reviews. Several protocols have been developed by research institutes worldwide (for example: [16,17] and http://www.aqmd.gov/docs/default-source/aq-spec/protocols/sensors-field-testing-protocol.pdf?sfvrsn=0) or are currently being standardized (CEN/TC 264 Air quality—Performance evaluation of air quality sensors—Part 1: Gaseous pollutants in ambient air and Part 2: Performance evaluation of sensors for the determination of concentrations of particulate matter (PM10; PM2.5) in ambient air; WI 00264179ASTM Work Item Number WK64899 Standard Test Method for the Performance Evaluation of Ambient Air Quality Sensors and other Sensor-based Instruments; US-EPA: Draft Performance Parameters and Test Protocols for Ozone Air Sensors and Draft Performance Parameters and Test Protocols for Fine Particulate Matter Air Sensors) by national standardization institutes, or have been published very recently (http://ecolibrary.me.go.kr/nier/search/DetailView.ax?cid=5668661). These protocols set different requirements, including sensor data treatment, levels and duration of tests, seasonality of tests, sensor averaging time, and type of reference measurements to which sensor data are compared to. In the absence of an internationally accepted standardized protocol for testing LCS [18], there is a lack of harmonization of the tests being carried out. Consequently, the conditions of tests and the metrics reported are generally diverse, making it difficult to compare the performance of LCS in different evaluation studies.

“Low-cost” refers to the purchase price of LCS [9] compared to the purchase and operating cost of reference analyzers [46] for the monitoring of regulated inorganic pollutants and PM, which can easily be an order of magnitude more costly. More recently, ultra-affordable OEMs have started to appear on the market for PM monitoring [47,48,49]. Many of them are designed to be integrated into Internet of Things (IoT) networks of interconnected devices. Currently, for PM detection it is possible to purchase optical sensors that cost between several tens and several hundreds of euro. Those devices are manufactured in emerging economies, such as the Republic of China and the Republic of Korea [50]. Some of these LCS can achieve similar performance to more expensive OEMs [18,19,29,30,31,37,48,49,51,52,53,54,55,56].
The data treatment of LCS can be classified into two distinct categories:

(1)
    Processing of LCS data performed by “open source” software tuned according to several calibration parameters and environmental conditions. All data treatments from data acquisition until the conversion to pollutant concentration levels is known to the user. There were 234 records identified, comprising 108 OEMs and 126 SSys using open source software for data management. These 401 records came from 34 unique LCS. Usually, outputs from these LCS are already in the same measurement units as the reference measurements. In this category, LCS devices are generally connected to a custom-made data acquisition system to acquire LCS raw data. Generally, users are expected to set a calibration function in order to convert LCS raw data to validated pollutant concentrations. The calibration equations are set by fitting a model (see Section 4.1) during a calibration time interval (typically 1 or 2 weeks) when sensor and reference data are co-located. Subsequently, the calibration is applied to compute pollutant levels outside the calibration time interval. Two-thirds of calibration functions are established by fitting LCS raw data versus reference measurements, and vice versa.
(2)
    LCS with calibration algorithms whose data treatment is unknown and without the possibility to change any parameter have been identified as “black boxes”. This is due to the impossibility for the user to know the complete chain of data treatment. 1189 records were identified, made up of 212 OEMs and 977 SSys that did not use an open source software for data treatment. These 1189 records came from 83 unique LCS. In most cases, these SSys are pre-calibrated against a reference system, or the calibration parameters can be remotely adjusted by the manufacturer. Finally, we should point out that some LCS used for the detection of PM (such as the Alphasense (Great Notley, UK) OPC-N2 and OPC-N3, and the PMS series from Plantower (Beijing, CN) could be used as open source devices if users compute PM mass concentration using the available counts per bins. However, these PM sensors are mostly used as a “black box”, with mass concentration computed by unknown algorithms developed by manufacturers.